[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Omega's a place for people
to deal with the experience
of life and come
home to themselves.
>> Seekers of all kinds.
>> A spiritual community.
>> All paths lead--
>> A house with many rooms.
>> A ticket into spirituality.
>> Spirit of holistic education.
>> Kindred spirit.
>> A sense of what it would be
like to really be themselves.
>> Retreats have
always been important.
>> A learning environment.
>> Omega is a great gift.
>> You're always
going to the desert.
>> It's hundreds of
thousands of seekers.
>> Tool for unity.
>> You always retreat.
>> Refuge in the 21st century.
[HUMMING]
>> I'm one of the pioneers
in the field of spiritual
psychology here in
the United States.
And how I got where I am is some
sort of a mystery to myself.
Because before 1976,
I was a socialite,
living in a big, four story
Georgian mansion, married
to a US circuit court judge.
And actually, a
hardcore Republican--
I have to laugh about that now.
I wore a French twist,
Neiman-Marcus clothes.
I drove a Continental Mark III
at the time and a Mercedes.
And all of my life was taken up
with doing some volunteer work,
but mostly giving dinner
parties and showing off
my beautiful four
story Georgian home.
And when I would
walk in a room, I
would just stand there,
plastic as I can be.
It would be, like, I can hardly
even relate to that me now,
when I think about how I was.
And one day, over
a Chinese lunch,
I realized that my
marriage was dead
and that I had to leave the
only life I'd ever been familiar
with.
And I remember walking
out of that restaurant
that day so devastated.
I really thought that I
was going to kill myself.
And I stumbled around.
Went to my best friend's
house and sat in her driveway
for several hours.
And she wasn't even home.
She was on vacation.
And finally, I drove
home, got in my bed,
pulled the covers over
my head, and begged God
to just take me out of my body.
And of course, God
didn't exactly do that.
What actually happened
is a voice boomed
in my head, a very loud,
masculine voice that said,
go in your study and read
"Discipleship of The New Age,"
Volume Two, page 146.
I remember I sat straight
up in bed and thought,
now I'm really crazy.
I'm having an auditory
hallucination.
Well, it turned out that
I did go in my study,
and I opened the book.
And when I opened
it to page 146,
it said you are one of
the ones who will write
a book for the new psychology.
And it gave a little description
about what this new psychology
would be, that it would
have a much stronger
evolutionary purpose than
any of the psychologies that
had come before it.
And that I would be
guided in this work
and would write this book in
the crucible of my daily life.
And I remember
thinking at the time,
I was supposed to write a
book on the new psychology
and I'm not even a psychologist?
And yet I knew, somehow,
that message was for me.
And I think the
main thing about it
that grabbed me so hard was that
it gave me a reason to live.
It gave me a sense of purpose.
And it reminded me of
the self that I really am
and who I really
came here to be.
And when I think back on why
it was that message meant
so much to me, it's because
my old life had died
and I could no longer be
the socialite Jacqueline
that I had been in Texas.
My life was so transformed after
that time and after that death.
When I realized I was going to
have to go through a divorce
and end the life
I was so used to,
which was very frightening
to me at the time,
I remember when I plopped
down on the bed that day,
begging God to take
me out of my body.
I didn't realize it then, but
in looking back on it now,
I realized what
had happened to me
is I was in a complete
ego death, which
can lead to suicide.
It can lead to such a
discombobulation of the self
that you can wind up
in a psychotic episode.
And fortunately for me,
mine did not turn out
to be a psychotic episode.
It turned out to be
a spiritual crisis
and introduced me very
experientially to my own soul.
When I read the
message in the book,
I knew the message was for me.
And it gave me a reason to live.
It was like a
reminder of some me
that I've always been that
I had been out of touch
with, as though I went back
into some sort of cosmic reality
and remembered why I had come
to this world, what I was really
here to do and be.
And even though I didn't have
a support group or anyone
around me at the time to
help me with this, what I did
is I began gathering
notes and listening
to the guidance that was coming
through about writing the book.
And I was so
inspired that that's
what kept me going until my new
life began to build around me
and I began to become the
spiritual psychologist
that I now am.
And shortly after that, I began
hearing these passages come
through my mind about
levels of consciousness
that I didn't
really know existed.
And I started taking notes.
And the book that I wrote,
which took four years to do,
is called "Transformers, The
Artists of Self-Creation."
And the book came about
just exactly the way
the message told
me that it would.
The message even went
further to tell me
that I would be guided
into meeting people who
would help me bring
forward my life's work.
And I do run a company now
called Eupsychia, which
means well-being in Greek.
And we're teaching people all
about soul-based psychology.
And it's all based
in the material
that came from that book that
day and came from that message.
And I'm just so grateful.
Because the book was
written exactly the way
the message told me
that it would be,
I really know now how it is
that our creativity happens.
It happens when our ego
gets out of the way,
and we're just wide
open, and we're
receiving a message
straight from our own higher
self, which is our soul.
>> I'm from New Jersey.
And I want to tell
you a story that
really transformed my life.
And I hope somehow this
will help someone out there.
About two years ago, I
went on a spiritual journey
with one of my friends and
we went out to New Mexico.
And we were going into the
mountains and praying every day
and asking Creator what we
can do to help heal the Earth
and make it a better
world and any way
that we could be of service.
And that was a
wonderful experience.
But the part that really
totally transformed my life
was one evening,
during twilight time,
we went back to our
hotel room, which
was just this regular,
like, Motel 6 kind
of crummy, little hotel room.
And we're just sitting down.
She's on the bed.
And I'm sitting against the wall
with my back against the wall.
And it was, like, I said
twilight time outside.
And our room-- we had
purposely made it dark.
And we just put a candle out
so we could see each other.
And I'm looking at my
friend, and all of a sudden,
I felt like there was something
going on with my eyes.
But I said, Sandra, you're
not going to believe this.
She said, what is it?
I said you are
turning into light.
I said, I don't see
your body anymore.
All I see is your
outline with total light.
And she said, Miriam, you're
not going to believe this.
I said, what is it?
And she said look at yourself.
So I looked at myself
and I was complete light.
And we weren't in meditation.
We weren't doing
anything special.
It was just unbelievable.
We were both laughing.
I wasn't freaked out and
neither was she at the time.
I really felt like I had no
boundaries, that everything
was interconnected, that cosmic
consciousness of everything
being related and
interconnected,
and we're all one.
And sometimes we forget that.
So that revelation came
to me immediately, and so
did it come to my friend,
and it was just amazing.
So I went back to
where I was sitting.
And all of a sudden, I was
thinking home, going home.
And I felt all this love
and tremendous light
was coming into the
room, like waves
and waves of tremendous cosmic
love was coming into the room.
And we both felt it.
Then all of a sudden,
my friend says, Miriam,
you're starting to disappear.
I said what?
So I looked at myself.
And actually, my legs
were no longer there.
And as I was looking up, there
was very little of me left.
And I realized I was going
up to that next level, which
is whatever you want to
call heaven or upper world.
And I knew if I had
gone the whole way,
I would not be
able to come back.
Something just said,
you know, in my head.
I knew that I would be
home and that would be it.
And she said to me,
you know you're not
supposed to go there yet.
You have to come back.
I said, I know, but I
don't want to come back.
I don't want to come
back, because there
was so much incredible
love, like I've never
felt in my life.
But I knew 1% in me
knew I had to come back
because I have a purpose
here, just as we all do.
Right after it happened,
it was completely amazing
for both of us.
And then, for me, for a
year, to be honest with you,
it was very hard for me to
be back here in this reality.
I was crying all the time.
I would go down to the
basement, and my family
would say what's the matter?
What's the matter?
And I couldn't explain to them
that I was so incredibly upset.
But I realized, you know what?
I chose to be here.
I want to be here, and I
want to bring as much light
and love into this world.
And I know that's what
we're all supposed to do.
I'm always doing healing work.
I do Reiki.
I run meditation workshops.
I've gotten into kabbalah.
I'm also a spirit coach now.
So I'm always asking Creator,
what do you want me to do now?
What do you want me to do now?
So whatever
opportunity I can take
to possibly spread some
more light and love,
that's what I do.
And I just keep
following that journey.
And I'm just letting
other people that have not
had this kind of experience
to know that this is real,
and this is for everybody.
But we're all here
to help each other.
I know that much.
We're all here to be one
family and help each other out
while we're on this Earth plane.
And when it's my
time to go back,
just like when it's all of
our time, we will be home.
But this is our home, too.
And that's it.
>> I'm someone who's a product
of a dysfunctional family,
alcohol and drugs.
I was born in
Baltimore, Maryland.
My mother, my grandmother,
and six or seven aunts
were basically the people
who were raising me.
And we lived in a
three story house,
and I was the only
male in there.
So I had a lot of
women around me.
And I would say that
I was very fortunate.
All my needs were met.
For words of understanding,
I was a spoiled brat.
And I was put into
nice schools and all.
I overachieved.
My mother was diagnosed
with tuberculosis
when I was 11 years old.
And for the next three
years, she was hospitalized.
So I was moved around
from family to family,
and that's when this structure
that was set up for me
really started to
fall to pieces.
I was no longer getting the
love and the nourishment
from my mother and my
grandmother and aunt who really
had my best interests at heart.
My other relatives
that I started
to stay with for the
next three to four years
had their own kids.
They had their own priorities.
And I was just
someone who was just--
I guess just taking up space.
Or they was taking me in and
just helping the family out.
Quite a few of them were
into drugs and alcohol.
As a matter of fact, they
were known on the streets
as drug users and drug pushers.
It really became--
it became very
comfortable to be
around them, to learn
from them what the tricks and
trade for how they were doing.
I mean, they were more
than willing to learn me
how to do it.
So that's what I started to do.
That's what I did.
I worked, and I sold drugs.
And when I got
pretty good with it,
I started having other
people sell drugs for me.
There came a time in my second
marriage that my wife then
and I both started to
use drugs very heavily.
It got very bad, the things
that you have to do that--
the lying, the
cheating, the stealing.
Then there came a
point in time where
it was nothing but the drugs.
I no longer could do
drugs just for the kicks.
I had to do drugs to function.
It's the only way that
I could do anything.
If I was going to work,
I had to do drugs.
If I was going to a
concert, I had to do drugs.
I had to do drugs sometimes
even before I ate.
It just became so out of hand.
In doing that, you start to
lose all your self-esteem, all
your respect for yourself,
anything else around you.
You start the cheating and
lying, even with the people
who are giving you the drugs.
So the only thing that
was left for me then--
I mean, no one else
could trust me--
was to go on the streets, in
the streets, into the shelters.
I used to watch other
addicts on the street.
And I used to watch them
go into shooting galleries.
And I said to myself
I would never do that.
I guess the real
turning point for me
was when, this one particular
day when I was homeless,
I went into an
abandoned building.
And it was pouring down rain.
And this was only
like 2, 3 blocks
from where my kids lived.
And when I came out
of that building.
I saw my youngest daughter.
She saw me come out.
It was one of the most
awesome feelings I ever had.
She knew that I used drugs.
But to see me come out of
a shooting gallery house
was something that it just sent
all kinds of stuff through me.
It's a feeling that--
I mean, even to today, I
mean, I have told this story
a few times--
and it's still very, very
hard still to talk about.
It was just a feeling that--
feeling worthless,
no respect from her.
It was just so devastating.
It was devastating enough that--
the homeless shelter
that I was staying at,
they had a counselor there.
And that evening when I went in,
for the first time in my life,
I really asked for their help.
And it was just that powerful.
It was just that powerful.
I remember sitting and
talking with my daughter
a couple of days later.
And she just basically
disowned me, you know?
Like I said, she knew that
her father used drugs.
But to see me come
out a place that she
had seen so many other
people come out of,
I think it sent a very powerful
message to her that, you know,
not only is her
father just homeless,
but he's just like the
rest of them, you know?
He'll never be anyone, you know?
I love my kids very much.
And a lot of what I was doing,
even starting the recovery
process, even the thought about
doing the recovery process,
I based it on doing
it for my kids.
It wasn't for me.
It was just knowing that
she didn't love me anymore.
And she didn't want to have
anything to do with me anymore.
And she was my baby.
In my downward spiral,
of my three kids,
she was the one who really
stayed in contact with me
to be supportive.
When I was homeless, she was say
to Mommy, can Daddy stay here?
You know?
And it was just that poignant
moment when she saw me--
I mean, I didn't think
about that myself.
I was thinking that, you
knoe, that I really, really--
I really lost her.
And knowing that the
other two, my two oldest,
didn't want to have anything
to do with me, I mean,
she was, like, my last link.
And it was just something
inside me that--
I just didn't want to lose her.
I didn't want to lose her.
As I understand, I wind
up doing it for me.
But that was a
turning point for me,
as I look back, that
gave me the strength
or made me pay more
attention to, you know,
I really need to
do something here.
If it wasn't for that, I
don't know where I would be.
But that was a
turning point for me.
And the rest of
it was that I just
did what I had to do to stay
clean and give my program.
It just had made so many things
in my life possible, free
of guilt and resentment.
It has gotten my son, my two
daughters back in my life.
It just has opened up
a whole different world
for me, the respect that
not only I have for myself,
but people actually respect
me because-- of just who I am.
It's been very powerful.
I'm just very blessed.
But that moment
with my daughter--
I mean, it was that moment
when our eyes touched.
It was just something just
went through me that I just
knew that I couldn't
do this anymore.
I didn't know what
I was going to do.
I just knew I couldn't
do it anymore.
And it was because
of seeing her.
>> My story started in 1995,
when I hadn't been to Israel
for five years and I
felt the need to go back.
And prior to that,
in 1990, I had
made a documentary about
the Women's peace movement
in Israel, the West
Bank, and Gaza.
And I had that notion,
that wouldn't it
be nice to go back to Israel
and do a sequel to the film
that I made?
But this time, when I went
in 1995, I had no money,
and I was pretty poor.
I remember that before
I left for Israel,
I had been in a very
spiritual space in my life.
I felt that something
was going to happen.
I didn't know what
But I had a feeling that
something was going to happen.
And I remember
thinking that I will
feel and be open to anything
that will happen and go
with the flow.
I went to Israel.
And on the first
day that I arrived,
I went to see a
friend of mine in one
of those studios in Tel Aviv.
And the first
thing he said to me
was, Shuli Eshel,
what are you going
to do now that you are here?
And I said, well, I
was thinking of doing
this documentary about a sequel
to the Women's peace movement.
And he said, well, I have just
the right woman to introduce
you to.
And at that moment, there
was a knock on the door.
And the woman walked in.
And he said, well,
this is Shuli Eshel.
I want you to meet her.
She wants to make a film.
This woman who walked
in, Miriam Spielman,
was one of the owners of
that big studio in Israel.
And she got very excited
about the subject.
And she then said,
well, how were
you thinking of paying for it?
And I took a pen and I wrote
down two shooting days, $3,000.
And at that moment,
I had a feeling
that I had to put my
mouth where my money was.
And I said, well,
I will pay 50%.
She took out her hand.
We shook hands.
And that was the beginning
of that documentary
that I produced.
At that time when I went
to Israel, I stayed.
I prolonged my stay.
And in five weeks,
I finished a film.
That night, I heard an
inner voice talk to me
and the inner voice
said that, as long
as I will be a good person
and bring love to the world
and live in balance and
not be greedy and be
participatory in life, I
will have everything I need
from that moment until I die.
>> The most important thing--
>> And that really happened.
I finished the film.
I went back to
the United States.
And money just started pouring.
My company flourished.
I had just started a company
a year and a half before that.
We were almost going
to close the company.
We had no money.
No projects were coming in.
And after that experience, which
I call a spiritual experience,
money just started pouring
and work started pouring in.
And it's just an amazing,
amazing turnaround
of events in my life.
And it's really, in some way, I
believe it is to do with trust
and believing in God and
trusting the universe.
And I just thought that
that would maybe, hopefully,
help and encourage and
inspire some other people.